#This describes the cubonomy sections of MineQuest.

= Introduction =

Cubonomy was the name of the plugin that I developed for Hey0. It was an in game economy which would vary prices based on how much was sold or bought. It was also a closed economy system, making it so no material would be produced from it, it would simply be shifted between players.

Now I have taken all of the aspects of that plugin and merged them into MineQuest to form the economy system for it. While a few interface things have changed and the prices vary more finely with the market, it at its heart is still cubonomy.


= Commands =

{{{
/cubes
}}}
This will tell you how many cubes you have.

{{{
/store [page_num]
}}}
This will display the items in the store. If the store has too many items it may display them in pages, in which case adding a number to the command will display a specific page.

{{{
/buy block_name quantity
}}}
Assuming you have sufficient funds this will buy the amount of the block specified. The block_name is a string, the same as what is shown in the store pages.

{{{
/buyi block_index quantity
}}}
This acts the same way as /buy however it uses the index given on the left side of the store listings for the block_index.

{{{
/sell and /selli
}}}
These work the same way as buy and buyi.

{{{
/costb and /costs
}}}
These use the same format as /buy and /sell however instead of performing the transaction they tell you the amount of money involved.

{{{
/price
}}}
Tells you the price of the town property that you are standing on.

{{{
/buyprop
}}}
Buys the property that you are standing on.

{{{
/addblock name price item_id
}}}
Will add a block to the store you are in. Must have permission to edit the town to do this.