#What I am currently working on.

I'm going to try to use this page to keep track of stuff that I am currently working on. It is possible that I won't keep up with this properly so keep an eye on the updated date.

= Abilities =

I am trying to implement all of the spells I originally had in mind for levels 10-20 of combat classes. A list of most of these can be found on the [Abilities] page. These will be released in MineQuestAbilities 0.3 whenever I get around to releasing it (hopefully this weekend).

= NPCs =

In the last release I added support for stationary NPCs for quests, so you can have dialogue which makes a little bit more sense. Now I am working on a huge amount of NPC support. I want to have NPCs standing in shops which will talk to you and buy/sell your items. I want to have mercenaries available for hire in towns which work just like questers, leveling up and gaining health. I also want NPCs which can wander around an area and say random things. Some/Most of these features will be released in MineQuest 0.4, if I have lots of problems a couple might get pushed back a version or two.

= NPC Quest Giving =
I want NPCs set up to give out quests. Even if this means you simply walk near one and you get the quest I want it to happen. This will be in 0.4.

= Quest Targetting =

Currently quests can only do absolute things like blow up an area or spawn a monster. I am working on a system that it will create events based on a target, such as traps that poison a player, or teleport a specific player. Some events will be target events, currently just AreaEvents and SingleAreaEvents will be used for targetting. They will target the last player standing inside the designated area. This is done but not completely tested. Should be in MineQuest 0.4.

= iConomy Support =
Looks like it won't be that complicated to add iConomy support but no guarantees on that. If all goes as smoothly as I think it will be in 0.4

= Sleep Healing =
I'm working on a system so that when all of the players go to bed, and it turns to day. That also everyone is healed either a large amount or to full health. No idea when this will be ready. 0.5 maybe? if things go smoothly.

= Simple Quests =
So I seem to have a lot of support for long epic quests that generally take place in an instance, but I don't seem to have support for the simple. I have a (mostly) working system for counting kills in a quest and turning it into a Quest Event, so at the very least the next release will have quests such as "go kill 5 skeletons". I would very much to also have block breaking as a part of it, so you can have a quest which has go mine 5 diamonds. The killing will be in MQ 0.4, and who knows about the rest.

= WorldGuard Issue =
Need to find a way to be respectful of WorldGuard God mode. Might be fixable by dropping to low priority and detecting the canceled event. Will be done as soon as I figure it out, who knows when.