w to install MineQuest

= Bukkit =
This is a bukkit plugin, you must be running bukkit to use it. If you don't know what I'm talking about then I recommend you go to www.bukkit.org.

= Details=

MineQuest installation for the most part is fairly simple. You can get all of the files you need at http://code.google.com/p/minequest/downloads/list. It installs like a simple bukkit plugin, except you also have to add the abilities.jar file to your root bukkit directory (not in plugins). Upon the first startup it will probably not work, probably because you haven't set up your properties file yet.

Set up the properties file with access to a MySQL database. You probably want to make sure silent is equal to 1 to make sure it doesn't spam your screen with MySQL queries constantly. I would recommend you give it a blank database as it has a whole bunch of tables and whatnot that it fills in. That should be it, after that things should be working for you. 

If you do have any problems with installation I would be happy to try to help you sort things out, so just send me an email at jmonk@critical-failure.us.

= MySQL =
If you get the following message you are probably missing the jar file of the mysql connector.

{{{
you appear to be missing MySQL JDBC
}}}

There are two solutions. The first that I recommend is trying my version of bukkit, I inject all of the MySQL and SQLite required files into it so no extra files are needed. I try to compile the latest build every time I do a release so this should be relatively up to date.

The second option is to add mysql-connector to your class path. I have talked about this problem with various people in the MineQuest thread on bukkit. I recommend you start there. Also searching the bukkit forums might help you. http://forums.bukkit.org/threads/mech-minequest-v0-30-rpg-system-with-customizable-quests-556.8576/

= SQLite =
If you don't want to go through the hassle of setting a "complicated" MySQL database then there is a solution. You can use SQLite instead, this will store the database in a file in your craft bukkit directory rather than. For this you simply set the mysql parameter in the properties file to false.

If it says you are missing the SQLite driver than my first recommendation is again to use my version of bukkit, or go to the forums and look for a sqlite connector to put in your classpath.

= Flatfile =
I have no flatfile support, however there is a simple three step process that will give you the same effect.

 # Download craftbukkit-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar from downloads and put that in a directory
 # Download MineQuest and associated files, put them in respective directories
 # Set mysql to false in the properties. 