#Introduces the functionality of minequest and how it works.

= Introduction to MineQuest =

MineQuest is designed to be an all encompassing system for minecraft, which runs as a bukkit plugin. This means that it manages towns, property, money, character levels, and damage all in one. I acknowledge that this is not the normal system for a bukkit plugin, as usually they do one specific aspect and have other plugins to do other things. If you like this system and are upset by the fact that my plugin is all encompassing, or you think something like this already exists, then my recommendation is that you don't use my plugin. Seriously, stop reading here.

MineQuest is designed to make the game more progressive, while encouraging a community environment in the server. Currently MineQuest does have pvp support, but not all spells work correctly for it yet. 

There is a list of [KnownIssues] available. Installation instructions can be found on the [Installation] page. I am also trying to keep up to date with a [CurrentProgress] page to document what I am currently working on.

Good Places to start in game are /minequest, /cubonomy (economy), and /quest. Also poking around these wiki pages gives some information about more advanced commands as well.

= Towns =
Everything is base around rectangularly defined towns. A town in MineQuest can hold a number of stores/properties. Each town has a mayor, the mayor can edit anything in town, as well as provide permissions to edit things in town. Each property in the town is very similar to the town itself, it has an owner and the owner can also give other people permission to edit it as needed. Stores have no owner as they are owned by the town.

== Property ==
Each property is rectangular. There are two types of properties, there are those with height and those without height. If a property does not have a height it simply reaches from adminium to the top of the sky. Each property currently defaults to a price of 10M Cubes (Cubes are the currency of MineQuest). I plan on making this be adjustable eventually, and I would like to make it depend on the market, but for now it is a flat fee of 10 M Cubes.

== Stores ==
Stores are shaped the same way as properties except that they do not have the editing permissions of a property, they are simply part of a town. The usage for stores and some details about commerce related commands can be found at [Cubonomy]. 

== Stashes ==
MineQuest has a simple way for questers to move their equipment as they travel from town to town using the built-in [Stashes] system. It allows one chest contents to follow the quester from town to town.

= Skill Classes =
There are two types of classes in MineQuest, there are resource classes and combat classes. The resource classes are based around things like gathering materials and building things, whereas the combat classes are based around killing monsters and staying alive. 

Questers are not restricted to any classes at any time. They always have a level in every class, starting at 0 in all of them. When you do things pertaining to a specific class you gain experience and eventually level up.

== Resource Classes ==
There are four resource classes and they are Miner, Digger, Farmer, and Lumberjack. Each of them have their own primary tool, Pick Axe, Spade, Hoe, and Axe, respectively. All of them gain experience by using the tool of their class or by not using any class tool and destroying classes related to their blocks.

Items are restricted at start, when all classes are level 0 you can only use wooden tools, as you level up you gain the ability to use better tools. At level 5 you can use stone, and at 20 you can use iron, and at 50 you can use diamond. 

== Combat Classes ==
There are also four combat classes, they are Warrior, Archer, War Mage, and Peace Mage. Each class has an armor type, once a quester reaches level 20 they can use the armor for that class. For leather armor to be used you must be a level 2 Miner, this allows low level characters to wear some armor.

=== Warriors ===
Warrior is the class built around using a sword, the same restrictions that apply to leveling up in resource classes also affect the type of sword you can use respectively. The warrior class armor is Diamond.

=== Archer === 
Archer is the class built around using a bow, abilities gained can make arrows cause special effects as well as doing more damage at higher levels as with any class. The archer class armor is iron.

=== Mages ===
Mages do not have a class weapon, however if they did it would either be the snowball or the bow as they are distance weapons. At level 0 War Mages are able to cast fireball, and PeaceMages are able to cast Heal/Heal Other. As they level up they gain new spells at various levels. The mage classes armors are gold.

= Abilities =
All classes will receive abilities as they level up, mages more than others. All abilities have a class or sometimes two that they belong to. Some abilities are passive but most are active and require binding to be used. Often abilities have a casting time restricting how quickly they can be cast. More details about abilities can be found at [Abilities].

== Abilities Binding ==
The way that active spells are cast is that they are bound to a specific item. If you were a mage trying to cast fireball you would most likely bind it to right click for snow balls. This way you could throw a snowball at an enemy and cast fireball on them. The binding works as follows.
{{{
/bind Fireball
}}}

== Abilities Components ==
Almost every ability has components required to cast it. Each time the ability is cast the components are removed from the casters inventory. If the caster does not have the required components then the spell will not be cast.

= Parties =
Any quester can create a party at any time, but they are only really used for entering quests. When a quest is started MineQuest will attempt to bring an entire players party with them. A quester can create a party with the following command.
{{{
/createparty
}}}
Likewise a quester can join someone else's party using this command.
{{{
/joinparty username
}}}
Finally you can always list who is in your party by using this command.
{{{
/listparty
}}}

= Quests =
Currently any player can start a quest at any time, eventually this will not be true. I would like it so that quests were tied to portals or something like that but that won't be around until a later version. MineQuest loads the .quest file in the minecraft server directory with the name of the quest requested and the .quest file contains the rest of the information. It will attempt to bring the party of the quester with them into the quest, if the quester is not in a party then it will create one with just them and start the quest.
Quests can be started with the following command.
{{{
/startquest
}}}
When inside a quest players will re-spawn at the spawn point for the world that the quest takes place in, unless the .quest file defines a spawn point. When the quest is completed the questers will be returned to the locations they were standing when they started the quest. A player can leave the party and quit the quest without completing it with the following command.
{{{
/quit_quest
}}}
More details about quest file format and how quests work can be found  at [QuestWriting]. At the end of a quest, the questers are awarded exp for both character and class. The class exp can be assigned to a specific class only before logout using the following command.
{{{
/assign_exp <class_name> <amount>
}}}
They can also check the amount they have available with the following.
{{{
/class_exp
}}}

= Super Mobs =
As players level up Super Mobs will become more apparent in the server. These look like regular mobs, but can be identified that they are so evil they turn the ground beneath them to dirt for a period of time. These mobs all have various special abilities and also are harder to kill. Creepers are the least exciting as the currently just do more damage and are hard to kill.

All super mobs always drop special loot, so you'll have to kill some to figure out what it is.

== Poison Zombies ==
Poison zombies are actually capable of poisoning you. Each time you are poisoned you can take a total of 10 points of damage. Damage from poison occurs based on distance you walk. Poison can only be cured by a PeaceMage. The zombies are also equipped with the ability dodge.

== Mauling Spiders ==
These spiders won't only be harder to kill but they also cast trap on you. Sending you down into a whole in the ground, where they will follow you and continue to attack.

== Skeleton Mages ==
These are skeletons that can cast spells. The get the list of abilities that WarMages can cast and select one at random. This means it is possible that they will do nothing. However it is also possible that they will cast IceSphere on you.